1. Started Kali Linux VM successfully. Purpose: run MITRE Caldera server
2. Started Windows 10 VM successfully. Purpose: target/victim machine for Caldera and Splunk analysis.
3. Configured both VMs with: Adapter 1: NAT and Adapter 2: Host-Only Adapter. This allowed internet access and communication between VMs.
4. Started MITRE Caldera on Kali using:
cd caldera
source venv/bin/activate
python3 server.py --insecure
5. Accessed MITRE Caldera in browser at http://localhost:8888. Verified dashboard access.
6. Kali host-only IP: 192.168.56.102. Used this IP for Windows-to-Caldera communication.
7. Verified Windows VM could communicate with Kali over host-only network using ping.
8. Generated Sandcat deployment command from Caldera. Replaced 0.0.0.0 with Kali host-only IP (192.168.56.102) so the Windows VM could connect.
9. Ran Sandcat deployment command in elevated (administrator) PowerShell. Windows Defender initially blocked the agent, so I went into Windows Security settings and disabled real-time protection. The command ran after the setting was changed.
10. Confirmed Windows VM successfully connected to Caldera as a Sandcat agent.
11. Created a Caldera operation using the Discovery adversary profile against the Windows VM.
12. Observed discover-related commands executed against the Windows VM. Examples included user and host discovery behavior.
13. Reviewed Windows Security logs in Event Viewer and confirmed process creation events. (whoami.exe being executed in screenshot event ID 4688).
14. Opened Splunk Enterprise on the Windows VM for log analysis.
15. Confirmed Splunk was ingesting Windows Security Event ID 4688 logs.
16. Used Splunk to search for suspicious process creation relate to the Caldera operation, including whoami.exe, cmd.exe, and powershell.exe.
17. Created a Splunk alert to detect suspicious process execution from Event ID 4688 logs. Alert was scheduled to run every 5 minutes. This enables real-time detection, automated alerting and attack correlation.
18. Validated the Splunk alert by generating process execution activity (whoami) and confirming the alert triggered successfully.
19. Built a dashboard in Splunk to visualize suspicious process activity observed during Caldera testing.
